My name is Kim Silverman.
I manage the spoken
language technologies.
We do speech synthesis.
We did the Alex voice in Leopard.
Who has heard Alex?
Thank you.
We do other cool stuff.
We do speech recognition.
Most relevantly for us today,
we do latent semantic analysis,
figuring out what text documents mean.
Have you ever looked at a
document and said to yourself,
"What the heck does this mean?" Well,
latent semantic analysis
figures that out,
and that's quite useful.
We use it quite successfully
for the junk mail filter.
We released the API to you folk.
And in Leopard, we have released new
features that do clustering.
You know,
any sufficiently advanced technology
is indistinguishable from magic.
So to tell you about this magic,
I'd like to introduce the senior
software engineer who implemented the
Latent Semantic Mapping Framework,
Dr.
Matthias Neeracher.
Good afternoon, everybody.
And I probably have to correct Kim.
It's not really magic.
It's at best,
it's a little protective hex or so.
You can think of that.
So, today we're talking about
Latent Semantic Mapping,
what it is, how it works,
how you can use the API,
and how you can avoid using the API.
We're going to discuss how
we used it in Mac OS X,
and then move on to what's
more important to you,
how you can use it in your application.
So what is latent semantic mapping?
In its most general terms,
latent semantic mapping is a
technology to analyze text or
analyze other data in fact,
and classify it into one
of a number of categories.
Now this is awfully abstract,
so let me demonstrate.
If you look at /usr/bin,
there are not just binaries in there.
There are more and more Perl scripts,
Python scripts, Ruby scripts in there.
And...
So let's try to use Latent Semantic
Mapping to train up a classifier that
can tell these types of scripts apart.
So first of all, we need training data.
And it turns out we have plenty of that.
We have lots of libraries installed.
If you look at it,
you have something like a
good five megabytes of source
code for these libraries in
all three languages combined.
That's more than enough to train
up a recognizer or a classifier.
So let's train up a Latent
Semantic Mapping classifier.
And that we can do with a command line
tool that is actually also in /usr/bin.
It's called lsm for
Latent Semantic Mapping.
[Transcript missing]
And we use these source code
libraries as training data.
Now, that's a quite complex task.
You read in five megabytes of data.
You do complex number of numerical
processing that somebody's
going to talk about later.
So that's going to take some time,
about a second.
Now we have our map.
The five megabytes of training
data is now represented by
about a megabyte or so of a map.
We can use that map to evaluate files
to see what category they fall into.
So we have three categories.
We have category one is Perl,
category two is Python,
category three is Ruby.
So we're going to look at three
particular scripts in Userbin
and see what door Latent semantic
mapping things they are behind.
So we see that acLocal,
our guess is that this is going
to be Perl because category one
has by far the highest score.
PyDoc, LateN Semantic Mapping makes this
astute guess that this might be Python.
And GenerateBridgeMetadata,
our guess is that this
is going to be Ruby.
And now we're going to cheat
and actually use a method
We just look at the first
line of these scripts,
and we find out that, lo and behold,
acLocal is a Perl script,
Pydoc is a Python script,
and GenerateBridgeMetadata
is a Ruby script.
So, in this case, we had 100% success,
although you should not expect
that to happen every time around.
That would be truly magic.
Can we go back to the slides?
So we use Latent Semantic Mapping.
The best known example in Mac OS X is
we use it for the junk mail filter
to assess whether a mail message
is legitimate mail or junk mail.
Now in Leopard,
we also use it somewhat similarly in
parental controls to filter out the
evil web pages from the good web pages.
We also use it in the Japanese input
method in our kana to kanji conversion,
because if there are multiple
characters with the same reading,
we can use Latent Semantic Mapping as
one of many methods to disambiguate
between the ambiguous readings.
And we use it internally for
localization to use the underlying
topic of discourse to disambiguate
words that can be translated
differently in different contexts.
So you've seen what we do with it.
How does it work?
For that,
I would like to bring up a colleague.
There's going to be some math,
but don't worry,
it's not going to be on the test.
Please welcome the scientist,
distinguished scientist who
brought this technology to Apple,
Dr.
Jerome Bellegarda.
Thank you, Matthias.
So I'm Jerome Bellegarda.
And what I'd like to do is give you
a little flavor of how LSM works.
And in some sense,
this is relatively easy,
because it's all in the name.
Latent semantic mapping
has three aspects to it.
Well, it's mapping.
And it's semantic.
And it's latent.
So let's go through it.
First of all, it's a mapping.
The concept originated
from information retriever.
And it deals with entities
such as words and documents.
And what it does is it
maps those entities,
which are discrete in nature,
into a continuous space,
which we'll talk about.
So second, it's semantic.
That means it has something to do with
the overall content and the meaning
which is inside those documents.
And it's also latent.
Latent means hidden in the general sense.
In this particular context,
it means that we're going to leverage
the co-occurrences between words in order
to infer some of their hidden meaning.
And that will enable us to
handle things like synonyms and,
also, multiple senses of the words.
So for example, when it's well-trained,
the framework knows that car
and automobile are synonyms.
Similarly, it knows that bank has to do
with financial institution,
most likely.
But also, it's clever enough that if bank
co-occurs with rate in the same document,
it can infer that the topic of the
document most likely is about finance.
Whereas if the same bank
co-occurs with a word like river,
then it's most likely an
article about fishing.
So what I'd like to do now
is walk you through those
three aspects of LSM in turn,
starting with mapping.
So as I mentioned before,
what we have is we sort of gather
a whole bunch of documents.
That's called the training corpus.
And what we're going to do
with those documents is try
to map them onto a space.
And in this particular case,
I use a three-dimensional example
because it's easier to visualize.
But in general,
it could be fairly complex.
It's a complex space
with a lot of dimensions.
And so the point of the exercise is to
take each of the documents that we have
and map them onto points in that space.
So in this particular case,
the triangles,
the red triangles that you see,
are just representation of the
original documents in that space.
This is called the training phase.
And so we do that with all the
documents that appear in the training,
and so pretty soon,
what we see is that we see regions of the
space that characterize certain topics,
such as finance and
computer science and so on.
Then during a phase
called classification,
what happens is that we take a new
document-- might be a web page,
for example,
something like that-- and we're trying
to see where it fits in the space.
And so what we do is we map it
in the space using the framework,
and lo and behold,
it falls somewhere in there.
And we sort of look at which
cluster it falls within,
and we can deduce that
in this particular case,
for example,
the web page that we had is most
likely about computer science.
That's the mapping part.
Let's go into the semantic aspect of it.
And I'd like to take the example
of parental controls because my
colleague Giovanni is going to go
through a case study of that later,
but very briefly,
and I'm going to give you a little
bit of a summary of what the subject
here is to assess whether a web page
is free of objectionable material
or whether it contains words that
are not suitable for children.
And so in the LSM strategy,
what we're going to do is we're
going to try to encapsulate what
exactly characterizes an objectionable
material versus what exactly
characterizes legitimate material.
And so for that,
we have two natural categories,
one having objectionable material,
or so-called explicit material,
and one for the legitimate material.
And so the implementation is that
we're going to construct an LSM space.
In this particular case,
since we have only two categories,
it's going to be two-dimensional.
And then we're going to define what's
called semantic anchors in that space.
Those will be the points that most
characterizes the objectionableness,
if you will, of the material versus the
legitimacy of the material.
And then every time we have a web page,
we're going to evaluate it
against those two anchors and
then figure out what it is.
So let me illustrate.
So here, again,
we have the two-dimensional space.
And we have those two anchors.
So the legitimate anchor might
be this green square here.
You can think of it as the centroid
of all the legitimate web page that
we've seen in the training data.
And similarly,
we have the-- objectionable material,
the anchor of objectionable
material that might fall in there.
And again,
you can think of it as the centroid of
all the pornographic web pages and so
on that we've seen in the training data.
And then a new web page comes in.
We map it in the space.
We then compute the distance
between that representation,
that point, and the two anchors.
And we see that in this particular case,
it is closer to the anchor
of explicit material.
In which case,
we deduce that it's probably a page that
you wouldn't want your children to see.
So let's move on and now talk
about the latent aspect of things.
And for this I'd like to go
through a little case study,
a little artificial construction here.
Imagine a four feature calendar
management system where you
can have only four queries.
You can ask about the time,
about the day,
about the time of the meeting.
You can also cancel the meeting
and that's all you can do.
Very contrived example but it will
I think illustrate some important points.
So the LSM strategy here is we
have four natural categories which
means that we're going to construct
four semantic anchors in the space.
And then of course as
we evaluate the input,
any input to that system that
may not be necessarily in the
same words as what's expected,
we're going to... ... ... ... ... ...
...we're going to map this input into
the space and figure out which query,
which category it is closest to.
So again, because,
well I'd like to first before we go
through the actual latent space for that,
why did I choose this
admittedly contrived example?
Well, those categories,
those queries have been chosen
because they illustrate a
couple of different things.
First of all,
the predictive power of the words
that appear in those queries are very,
is very different.
For example, the, you'll notice,
appear in all four queries,
meaning that if you see the,
that gives you absolutely no information
whatsoever about which query it is about,
meaning its predictive
power is essentially zero.
Whereas they, or cancel for example,
they each appear in one
particular query and nowhere else,
meaning that if you see... ...the,
you know that I'm talking about
category number two in that case.
So the predictive power is different.
Also, we have all kinds of occurrences.
We have overlaps.
We have meeting, appearing in,
in two of the queries.
We have ambiguities
and so on and so forth.
So that's kind of an
interesting case study.
Now let's assume that a user
has been using this system
and was successful with it,
and then he goes, you know, goes in,
takes a little break,
goes... ...somewhere, comes back,
doesn't quite remember
how to query the system.
So he says something like,
"When is the meeting?" instead of,
"What time is the meeting?"
And you'll notice that in that case,
"When" has never been seen by the system.
And so the question is,
what will LSM do with that?
So let's go through,
that's the actual illustration.
You can actually construct this,
this example in,
in using the LSM framework and see what,
what happens.
This is the two-dimensional
rendition of this example.
And here I've mapped the words.
So those are all the words.
"The" you recall had no predictive power,
so it just happens to be at the origin.
"They" and "consul" you recall each
predicted one query particularly well.
And so they tend to score high on
one dimension and low on the other.
And the other words fall
somewhere in the middle,
and you notice that "what" and "is"
happen to co-occur all the time,
meaning that they fall on top
of each other in this space.
Now about the, the query themselves.
Here they are.
Not surprisingly,
"what is the day?" falls
very close to "day," which is
the word that predicts best.
And similarly with "consul the
meeting." And the other two fall
similarly fairly close to the,
their constituent words.
The question is,
what happened with the new input?
Remember, it was "when is the meeting?"
And so you do the computation,
and lo and behold, that's where it falls.
And you see that the query that
is the closest to it is this one.
So that would be the query
that's predicted by the system.
And so what we've seen is that in
a very sort of data-driven way,
the system has essentially figured
out that "when" is a synonym for
"what time." Isn't that great?
Okay, so that seems like magic.
It's not all magic.
And now I'm going to walk you
through some of the tedious details
of the math that's behind it.
I'm going to keep it short and simple,
hopefully.
The two pieces of information that
we leverage here is how often does
each word appear in each document,
and compared to how often does each
word appear in the entire training data.
And what we do is we form a
matrix of words by documents.
It is not a Christmas gift,
despite the appearance.
This is simply a two-dimensional
array of numbers.
Each entry in this matrix
is a weighted count,
weighted appropriately,
of essentially how many
times that particular word,
the green word,
appear in this particular document,
the red document.
And in order to make -- so this defines,
as it turns out,
this appropriate vector representation
for the words in the documents.
But then it turns out they're
not completely practical.
So we go through an additional step,
which is called singular
value decomposition,
or SVD for short,
that takes this matrix W and
massage it a little bit,
sort of decompose it into three different
matrices that are easier to deal with.
And this gives us the
appropriate representation,
the points in the space
that we were looking for.
And those -- the set of those points are
essentially what the space looks like,
the latent semantic space.
So coming back to my
example from the beginning,
we then have a set of documents,
a bag of documents,
and we map it into the space,
just as we did in the beginning.
Then when we have a new document,
we classify it and find out
its position in the space.
We also-- we've seen in the
case study that I presented
before that from the document,
of course, we can infer the words,
and we can map those words
equally in the space.
So we are left with a framework that
allows us to respond to two questions.
Given this blue triangle,
which is the new input,
this web page that I want to classify,
we can ask,
what is the closest document
in my training corpus that,
you know, the document that's closest
to this particular input?
And that would be given
by the red triangle.
And this is the kind of stuff that we do,
the kind of question we answer
when we do junk mail filtering
and also parental controls,
as you will see.
But we can also ask,
given this blue triangle,
given this new input, what word best
characterize that document?
And that would be the green square there.
And this is the kind of
question we answer when we
do a Kanata-Kanji conversion,
for example.
Try to figure out which word
best characterizes the document.
And so we will either figure out
which document is closest or which
word is closest in that LSM space.
Now, a couple of caveats.
You know, lsm is powerful.
It's no panacea.
It only works within the constraints
of the particular paradigm.
And in particular,
it has three limitations.
One has to do with a fairly
shallow sense of semantic.
We're not talking about semantics as
is described in a typical artificial
intelligence literature here.
The semantic aspect of lsm
is completely tied to word
co-occurrences as they appear in
that matrix that I was talking about.
So it's fairly shallow.
Still powerful.
The second aspect is that
the word order is ignored.
In other words,
we take the document as a bag of words.
Hence the little
pictograph of a bag here.
[Transcript missing]
So how do we use the API?
The first thing to notice
is the demo I just gave you
does not use the API at all.
It just uses the command line tool.
And in fact,
in a large percentage of applications
of Latent Semantic Mapping,
the command line tool is perfectly
adequate to do the prototyping,
to possibly even pre-train a map,
to do a lot of your testing.
So you can decide whether it's
actually working out for your
application before you write the
first line of C code using the API.
Once you do want to
write that first line,
the API is core foundation based.
That means all the types in the Latent
Semantic Mapping API can be retained,
released.
You can put them into NSArrays.
You can do unspeakable things with them.
So we have-- Latent Semantic Mapping
framework is based around three types.
The LSM map,
which is the data structure we use
to store the transformed training
data and to evaluate things against.
The LSM text,
which is where you would put in
text or your other data that you
want to use for training or for
evaluation while you're building it up.
And as a result of the evaluation,
you get back an LSM result.
To dig a bit further into
an LSM map operations,
there are LSM map create to create a map.
Then you start training it by
creating a text by first creating
categories with LSM map add category.
And then you keep creating texts
and calling LSM map add text to
add data to those categories.
Once you're done with your training data,
you call LSM map compile to put
the map into a compiled state.
Now, occasionally you may want to
go back and add more data.
For instance, in junk mail filtering,
whenever the user hits the
junk mail or not junk button,
we go back,
put the map back into training state,
add the mail as further training data,
and compile it again.
That putting back is done
with LSM map start training.
In evaluation state, To evaluate a text,
you call LSM result create
because according to core
foundation naming rules,
what you really get
back is an LSM result.
So that's what the call is named after.
And to store a map to disk
and to load it back in,
you have lsmmap write to
URL and lsmmap create from URL.
And finally,
the calls that we didn't talk about
last time that are new for Leopard
is lsmmap create clusters to discover
the clusters present in a dataset.
And then if you decide
that they are good,
that you want to use them,
you call lsmmap apply clusters,
which reorganizes the map around
those clusters that you've discovered.
So moving on to an LSM text.
The name might suggest that an
LSM text is a sequence of words.
And that's, in fact, what it often is.
But it can be more than
that or less than that,
depending on how you view it.
There are three ways of
adding data to a text.
The simplest way,
and the way that is supported
by the command line tool,
is you just take a long string and let
latent semantic mapping break that up
into words and add those to the text.
That's done with LSM text add words.
This default parser does not
work in all circumstances.
For instance,
our parser discards numbers,
because in many contexts,
the numbers just clutter up the space
and don't really add any information.
But in some cases,
it's crucially important
to preserve numbers,
in which case you want
to write your own parser.
Also, we might not parse all
languages correctly.
So for some languages,
you might want to write your own parser,
in which case you just write your parser,
and whenever you found a word,
you call lsm.text.addWord in the
singular to add that to the text.
And the third option is you don't
necessarily have to use words,
because despite all the semantic stuff,
latent semantic mapping is fundamentally
agnostic of what's in your tokens.
It doesn't have to be a word.
It can be in any language.
And in fact,
it can't just be binary data.
So if you want to use binary data,
if you want to use a CFData instead of
a CFString as your fundamental unit,
you just call lsm_text_add_token.
Now you have your text and
you want to evaluate it.
You do that by calling lsm_result create,
specifying a number of categories
that you're interested in.
Sometimes you have this kind of
winner-takes-it-all evaluation,
in which case you only want one category,
the top one.
In some cases you want to do
some kind of an n-best thing,
in which case you would have
a number greater than one.
For this number of categories,
you can inquire what
the category number is.
For instance, as we saw in the example,
one for Perl, two for Python,
three for Ruby.
That would be lsm_result.get_category.
You may want to know what the score is.
We have the scores of the categories
adding up to one conceptually,
so it's like a probability.
You want to get the score to find out
what your confidence in the result is,
and you do that with
lsm_result_get_score.
If you do a word-based mapping,
where you want to get back
the best matching words,
then the category number
doesn't tell you a whole lot.
That's just the index within
the overall list of words.
So you would rather prefer to have
lsm_result_copy_word to get back the
CFString of the words that you put in.
In a clustered map, you may need
lsm_result_copy_word_cluster,
so you get a CFArray of CFStrings.
And similarly,
if you have a map using binary
tokens instead of strings,
you get lsm_result_copy_token
or copy_token_cluster,
which just returns CFData or CFArray.
So you would rather prefer to have
lsm_result_copy_word to get back the
CFString of the words that you put in.
In a clustered map, you may need
lsm_result_copy_word_cluster,
so you get a CFArray of CFStrings.
with a CFArray of CFData.
That's how we used the API.
So how did we use it?
Our first usage, I said,
was chunk mail filtering.
In a way,
that's a pretty simple application.
You have the good guys here,
the bad guys there,
no ambiguity whatsoever,
but there are some refinements needed.
First of all,
we don't want to have equal error rates.
As aggravating as it is to have a
chunk mail delivered to your inbox,
it's much worse to have a legitimate
mail drop out of sight in your
chunk mailbox and not to be
discovered until several days later.
So we err a little bit on the side
of classifying a mail as legitimate.
We do that by not just testing the top
category against the chunk mail category,
but by also testing that the score we
got for that top category is greater
than a threshold which we defined to
be somewhat greater than 50 percent.
So you might may want 55% certainty.
The second problem is that
the people who send junk mail,
they are evil but they are
not necessarily stupid.
So they know that they're
parsing their mail,
so they're making their
mail difficult to parse.
And they do that, for instance,
by inserting gratidious punctuation or
doing the heavy metal thing and inserting
gratidious umlauts and other diacritics.
So we need to counteract that,
so we have a specialized parser that
is just used for parsing junk which we
activate with a flag to LSM text AdWords.
Our third problem is that if
you look at the map generated by
training up a junk mail filter,
and you dump that out of the
console with strings or with cat,
you would see all sorts of offensive
words and we don't really want that.
You don't want your children to use cat
on that map and see a word like mortgage.
So to counteract that,
we added a little bit
of a hashing function.
It's not military-grade
cryptography by any means,
but it's just enough that you would
not really be able to read anything
useful with a text-based tool.
And that might be useful
in other contexts as well.
So you can specify this flag,
lsm_map_hash_text when creating a map.
And one final and important
point is LateN Semantic Mapping
is not used in isolation here.
It's used as a last line of defense.
If you think about the path
that a mail message takes,
first goes to your internet service
provider and your internet service
provider probably is going to throw
away about 85 to 95 percent of incoming
mail and if it does its job properly
because much of it is so obviously spam
you don't you never want to even deliver
that to your end-user machine once it
is delivered to your inbox you apply the
handwritten rules that you have in mail
dot app if you to sort mail early that's
usually only used to define a mail early
as good mail not to throw it away but you
could also write rules to throw it away
then what you do next is you look up the
sender of the mail in your address book
because that's another case where we err
on the side of caution if you know the
person who pretends to have sent you this
mail we rather present you the mail and
let you decide whether it's a desirable
mail so add a mail to your inbox and
you can send it to your email address
book and address book is also used
to preserve a mail and only if all those
filters don't give a conclusive response
do we use latent semantic mapping
To decide whether a mail is to be
discarded or whether it's to be kept.
So this is kind of the simple case.
For a more complex case,
I would like to bring up my colleague,
Giovanni Donelli,
who implemented the Web Content Filter.
and I'm a software engineer,
member of the team that designed
the Leopard Web Content Filter.
With my presentation today,
I would like to show you what is
it like to use Latent Semantic
Mapping to solve quite a complex
problem such as web filtering.
But before I delve more into
the details on how we use LSM,
let me show you where you
can find the web filter.
So as some of you may notice,
Leopard introduces a brand new set
of parental control functionalities.
It allows you to impose several
restrictions on the use of the
computer and of its applications.
One main area of concern nowadays,
obviously, the internet,
especially for parents.
And I think we all agree that the
web can be considered a potentially
harmful place for younger minds.
So the objective of the web
content filter is to validate the
material coming from the internet,
making sure no kid gets
exposed to explicit material.
So the filter is based
on a two categories map,
which has been trained to recognize
explicit and legitimate material.
Our training data is made by
approximately 7,000 pages,
which have been collected primarily
manually in an effort to approximate the
variety of the distribution of the web.
This is just a text-based filter.
We're not doing any fancy image analysis
or skin recognition of any sort.
We're taking the HTML page source and
converting that into simple text by
removing all the layout information,
all the tags that would add
clatter and noise to the LSM map.
In this process,
we're obviously trying to retain
as much information as possible,
such as meta tags or image descriptions.
As you've heard from Matthias,
LSM is currently ignoring numbers,
but numbers could be very
relevant to our classification.
You see here a really good example.
The USC 2257 identifies a law
that regulates the handling of
adult material on the Internet.
So obviously the presence of this string
can highly identify explicit material,
and we convert numbers into tokens
that you see here in the example,
so that LSM can learn to distinguish
specific words or specific flags
that are potentially explicit.
The structural feature of a web page
can also give us some hint on the type
of material displayed by a web page.
As you probably can imagine,
explicit pages tend to have a
lot of images and little text.
So we are converting a
structure of features,
such as the number of
images or number of words,
into tokens, into just fake words that
we insert in the text.
And we just let LSM learn what
features are to be considered
potentially explicit or legitimate.
To test how well the
filter works on our scale,
we need to verify the accuracy
of the web filter over a set of
pages which have never been seen
in the training phase before.
For the purpose of collecting test data,
we are using the Open Directory project.
This is an open source
effort to classify the web.
Users on Demos have already
classified thousands of
legitimate and explicit pages.
We're taking approximately
100,000 of these documents,
and we're making the filter
evaluate every single one.
And the filter associates a score
between 0 and 1 to each single page.
Then we aggregate this
information in this graph.
In the vertical axis,
we have the page score.
The higher the score,
the higher the probability
for a page to be explicit.
On the horizontal axis,
we have the page score.
On the vertical axis,
we have the proportion
of pages with that score.
So let's see how our data
distributed over its core.
These are the legitimate pages.
These are the explicit ones.
So the shape of these two
curves tell us that the explicit
pages are all very similar.
In fact, they are primarily classified
within a very narrow score range.
Legitimate pages, instead,
are much more diverse.
They cover a wider variety of topics.
That's why the curve is much
more evenly distributed in the
first half of the core spectrum.
Somewhere where those two lines overlap,
we can identify the equal error rate.
And at this point,
the filter makes equal mistakes
in classifying explicit
material and legitimate.
The equal error rate is a really good
metric for us of the filter accuracy.
And as we evolve the filter,
our goal is to minimize
the equal error rate.
By looking at this graph,
we can also understand where we should
put our fifth threshold and the risks
that are involved with this decision.
So automatic testing is really
great to understand how our
filter works on the Internet.
And it's extremely helpful to
keep track of the filter progress
over time as we change it and
see if there are any regression.
However,
it can only be as accurate as long
as the test data that we're using
is a good representation of the web.
There are also some disadvantages
of automatic testing.
Primarily, it has a quite high initial
cost to set up all this system
to gather all this test data.
It might not really be suitable
in a prototyping phase.
And most importantly,
Automatic Testing is not really telling
you what's going wrong with your LSM map.
It's not allowing you to easily
understand what you need to
change in order to improve
your classification system.
So what we found extremely helpful,
especially at the beginning of
the development of the web filter,
was to analyze what LSM will
learn in the training phase.
You can do that from terminal.
I use the LSM dump command,
and you pass it as input the map file.
All of a sudden,
we print out all the data gathered
during the training phase,
and let's analyze it more closely.
Starting from the last column,
So in here,
we read all the words that LSM has
seen in the training documents.
These make the dictionary of the LSM map.
These are all the words that LSM is able
to recognize and assign a meaning to.
Then we have as many columns as the
number of categories that are in our map,
which is, in the case of the web filter,
just two.
And here we read the number of
times a given word was observed
in the training documents provided
for each specific category.
So by looking at the values
on these two columns,
we can have an idea on what
LSM thinks about specific words.
So for example,
The word advertising was found five times
more in the training document provided
to train the legitimate category.
And therefore, LSM is thinking that
this word is legitimate.
The word "storings" then was found
almost equally in both categories.
Therefore, the semantic meaning of
this word is very low.
And LSM would probably ignore this
word as it's classifying a document.
So the idea here is that we can go
through all this list and verify
whether LSM has really learned
to recognize what words are to be
considered explicit or legitimate.
The problem here is that
the number is pretty big.
In our web filter,
we have over 100,000 unique words.
So this is not something
that you can do manually.
You want to write a script that
identifies the most significant
words that are being used to
classify a specific category.
So for the sake of the example here,
let's say we want to identify
the most representative,
the most significant words that have been
used to classify the specific category.
Well, we first need to select those words
that have very high word count.
These are words that appear in
almost every single document that
is provided in the training phase.
And then out of this world,
we need to select only those that
appear significantly more in one
category versus the other ones.
And we call a word with this
feature an indexing word,
because its presence in an unknown--
and porn is an indexing word for
the specific category-- because its
presence in an unknown document highly
shifts the classification of this
document towards the specific category.
So one of the very first thing that we
wanted to verify when we were developing
the web filter was to see whether the top
indexing word of this specific category
were actually related to adult material.
And this is what we obtained.
So without doing a very complex analysis,
we could see very well what
the problems were here.
The filter is considering explicit
words that are just frequently
used in English or that are just
part of the Internet vocabulary.
It was pretty obvious that
in the first prototype,
the training data that we were
using was very imbalanced.
It did not really approximate
well the distribution of the
content of the whole web.
We also realized that finding a
good representation of the web was
a quite hard task to accomplish.
So in addition to finding
better training data,
we should also exclude from the
classification words that don't really
have any semantic meaning associated.
And we called the words that I excluded
from the classification "stop words."
And this graph shows you the distribution
of the training pages over their score.
The blue dot are pages that
we know are legitimate.
The red dot are pages
that we know are explicit.
On the vertical axis,
we have the page score.
And once again, the higher the score,
the higher the probability
for a page to be explicit.
So if our filter was perfect,
all those red dots would
be at the top of the graph,
and all those blue dots
would be at the bottom.
Now, without going too much
into the details here,
we see that by increasing
the number of stop words,
the two group of pages start to be
clustered at the edge of the graph.
And this means we are making a
better classification and fewer
error in classifying explicit
and legitimate documents.
Another frequent problem that you're
going to face while working with
LSM is to understand the reason
behind a document classification,
or most importantly,
a document misclassification.
And you see here a really good example.
In one of the first
iterations of our web filter,
the Wikipedia page about
Barbie was being restricted.
So to figure out what are the
reasons behind a nice classification,
you can use, once again, from Terminal,
the lsmdump command.
You pass as input the map file,
and the text documented is the
subject of your investigation.
In LSM, we print out all the data or
part of the data that has been
used to evaluate this document.
So let's analyze it once again.
In the last column,
we read the words that have been
used to evaluate this document.
These are words that are part
of the document and that are
also part of the LSM map.
Then once again,
we have the word frequency.
These are the number of times a given
word was observed in the training
document for each specific category.
These are the exact same word counts that
you will find in the simple map dump.
And then in the very first column,
we read the percentage value
relative to the number of times,
or...
Yeah, a percentage value relative to
the number of times a given word
is repeated in this document.
So, for example,
in this specific Wikipedia page,
the word "Barbie" is repeated
almost ten times -- or,
sorry, every ten words in the document.
So let's go back to our initial question.
Why is this Wikipedia page
being blocked by our filter?
What we can see here on top,
that the word "doll" and "dolls"
were found significantly more
in this specific category.
And therefore,
these two words are driving
the classification towards
this specific category,
and the filter is restricting
the Wikipedia page.
But to fix this problem,
we simply needed to add more training
documents related to legitimate toys.
And that was enough to
fix this specific issue.
So it is now 5:50,
and you can relax knowing that your
children are safely surfing the web
thanks to Latent Semantic Mapping.
Thank you.
So you've seen how we use latent
semantic mapping for our purposes.
How can you make it work for you,
yourself, for your applications?
You have to think about what you could
categorize with latent semantic mapping.
You could use it to categorize
your bookmarks in your browser.
RSS feeds by content.
You could categorize your books or other
media library by going and fetching
reviews or abstracts and using those
to put those media into categories.
You could categorize your wine cellar.
You could go wild and do math
science and categorize DNA sequences.
It's really up to you.
But there are a few things you should
know before you consider using LSM.
First of all, LSM handles tasks that
are semantic in nature.
If a problem is syntactic in nature,
like identifying dates, times,
or addresses in text,
that's not an area where
LSM is going to do well.
A problem needs to be semantic in nature.
That is, for instance,
categorizing documents by topic.
Secondly, the categories you pick
need to be distinct enough.
If you have something like an
economy page of a newspaper
versus a business page,
then Latent Semantic Mapping is
not going to be able to tell you
what page an article belongs on,
probably.
If it's the economy section
versus entertainment section,
although there still are overlaps,
Latent Semantic Mapping is likely
to be able to tell those apart.
You also need good training data.
You need a good quality
of your training data.
It needs to be representative of
the full breadth of your domain.
For instance, as Giovanni said,
if you don't train with toys,
you might mischaracterize whether
dolls are an adult or a child concept.
Your data needs to be reasonably clean
for the purpose of classification.
That is,
if you're not interested in HTML tags,
you should not present the
HTML tags to the training.
You should try to fix the typos
in your training material.
And very important,
your training data needs to be as
balanced as possible in each category.
If you have vastly more
Material in one category than in another,
that's also going to
skew evaluation results.
That also leads us into the other point.
You need enough training data.
You need enough data to cover
the variability in your material.
As a rule of thumb,
if you use a large vocabulary application
that is general English text rather
than very domain restricted text,
you need more than 30,000 unique words.
And the more categories you have,
the more training data you need.
And if you have something like you
categorize stuff that comes in from
a news feed or something like that,
if your data changes over time,
you need more initial training data.
Or, of course,
you can also go back and retrain later,
adding more material.
So how do you test the
accuracy of your results?
One method which is kind of tried and
proven in research and in practical
application is to partition your
training data into a number of chunks.
You use all but one of
them to train up your map.
And the last one that you held out,
you use for testing.
It's important that you don't
use testing data that is already
present in the training of the map,
because that's completely going
to invalidate your results.
Then you run your test.
You rotate things around by holding
out another part of your input data,
and then average out the results.
So what if your results are not as
good as you would like them to be?
First thing you could try
is what Giovanni also did,
is to use a list of stop words.
You saw in his diagrams that this
was a simple and very effective
means of improving results.
That is, holding out words that appear in
all categories roughly equally.
Secondly, you can try experimenting
with the number of dimensions.
By default, our number of dimensions is
the number of categories.
But if you have a problem
where you use 1,000 categories,
there is no point in doing your
math with 1,000 dimensions.
For a natural language problem,
you should restrict things to
about 100 to 300 dimensions.
And if that still doesn't work,
you can also try adding some
frequently used word pairs or words
triplets by doing a custom parser.
And if you have something
like 18 USC 2257,
that might be a useful to
use and to add to your map.
As we have seen, for instance,
in junk mail filtering,
it's often useful to combine Latent
Semantic Mapping with other sources
of information and knowledge
because Latent Semantic Mapping
does well where other techniques
don't do so well and vice versa,
other techniques complement
Latent Semantic Mapping.
We've used that in a junk mail filter
where we have handwritten rules,
server-side rules.
We use it in Kanato Kanji conversion
where we apply a whole bunch of
heuristics and use Latent Semantic
Mapping as one method among many.
That's all there is to know.
Now go forth, map some text,
map some other data,
and tell us about your results.
For more information,
you can go to the WWDC website.
You can also contact our evangelist,
Matt Brands.
We have a public mailing list that
you're welcome to subscribe to.
It's fairly low traffic,
so it's not going to burden
your inbox with more spam in
the interest of spam reduction.
And you can also go look
up our documentation.